'Tab-delimited fields: Version, Build, Feature, Details, (Required module)

7.0	1511	Continued performance improvements, enhancements and various bug fixes

7.0	1501	Can now select a "Color Theme" preference	From the Misc tab of the Program Settings, you can now select a color theme: |- CLASSIC  (original background colors with colored icons) |- IVORY  (white background with black text/icons) |- CHARCOAL  (black background with white text/icons)

7.0	1482	A number of new indicators and chart studies added	Some of the new indicators include Ehlers Decycler, Ehlers Decycler Oscillator, Fisher Transform, Laguerre Filter, Laguerre RSI, Spearman RCI, and RSI CustomAvg (which allows you to select which method of moving average to use for the RSI). |And some new pre-built studies (indicators with special display characteristics -- e.g. histograms with colors, etc) include the Awesome Oscillator study (by Bill Williams), SuperTrend study, and the Wyckoff Volume Wave study (like the "Weis Wave").

7.0	1482	Drawing tool enhancements	Many more of the drawing tools now allow you to save multiple sets (up to 4) of default settings, so you can more quickly add any of your 4 favorite styles of the same drawing tool.

7.0	1482	Fib Clusters with heat map	A new drawing tool that incorporates both price and time fibonacci analysis.  This tool can utilize a visual "heat map" on the chart to indicate the time/price areas in the future where the most relevant fibonacci lines tend to cluster.

7.0	1482	Can now color-code backtest results by commodity category	When backtesting a group of symbols, you now have an option to color-code the results in the grid by commodity “category” (e.g. energies, grains, equities, treasuries, etc).  This helps to quickly identify if a specific strategy tends to perform either well or poorly with a certain category of commodities in general.

7.0	1482	Volume Profile study overlaid on price bars	"Volume Profile" is a new study which can be added to charts to show the volume at each price level as horizontal histograms overlaid on top of the price bars.  This is one of the many tools related to Market Profile analysis that is now available in Trade Navigator.

6.9	1446	Money Management and Monte Carlo enhancements	- The Standard Money Management method has a new default option to set the risk for each trade based on the system's "stop-loss" amount (but if a stop-loss rule cannot be identified for that system, then it will just use that system's biggest losing trade). |- The Monte Carlo "Risk% Analysis" now also uses the stop-loss amount as the basis for each trade's risk (or biggest losing trade if no stop-loss rule can be identified).  And it will now ignore a trade when the risk for 1 contract exceeds the specified risk% of the current account balance.  And a "% Failures" column was added (percentage of simulations which resulted in no overall profit). |- The Monte Carlo "Profit to Drawdown ratio" is now calculated as an Annual Average Profit to Drawdown ratio (which may arguably be the most significant statistic when measuring the performance of a trading system).  Also, a column was added to the drawdown percentile grid to help indicate how often those drawdowns can be expected. |- The "Fixed Ratio" money management method now continues to trade below the starting balance minus 1 delta.

6.9	1446	Some additional intraday functions have been added	Some intraday functions that were requested and used by two of our World Cup Champions have been added: |- "MovingAvgOfSameBarTime" returns a moving average of the specified expression for the past "N" bars of that exact same time of day. |- "PartialDay High" (and corresponding Low/Open/Close/Volume/TickVolume functions) returns the Highest price for the intraday bars from the specified number of days ago, but only looking at bars with time > StartingHHMM and <= EndingHHMM. |- "IsWithinTimeRange" returns true only for intraday bars with time > StartingHHMM and <= EndingHHMM (e.g. so can easily be charted as a highlight box around the most significant timeframe for each trading session).

6.9	1443	Continued performance improvements, enhancements and various bug fixes

6.9	1426	Many enhancements, performance improvements and fixes	- some additional enhancements of existing features (e.g. a few new options in various drawing tools) |- some minor fixes (e.g. drawing tool labels, Trade Profile charts, switching chart pages, etc) |- some fixes and enhancements to realtime streaming and auto-trading |- some fixes and enhancements to Options Navigator

6.8	1360	Gridline enhancements	- Horizontal gridlines are now dots (more subtle than dashes, and easier to distinguish from dashed horizontal lines in chart studies), and each dot is now aligned in both directions -- aligned with the price axis at the right (at each major tick line), as well as aligned directly above/below each price bar. |- Vertical gridlines are now also aligned in both directions -- aligned with the labels in the dates axis at the bottom, and each dash is also aligned with the price axis at the right (at each minor tick line). |- This dual alignment makes it easier to visually see what indicators are doing for a particular price bar by simply following the dot on each horizontal line as you look up/down between indicators and panes, and easier to know the approximate indicator value by comparing with the dashes in the closest vertical line. |- And because some of these alignment benefits only come when both horizontal and vertical gridlines are both on, the new default is to show both.  But you can still turn either vertical and/or horizontal gridlines on/off in the "Dates axis" section of the chart settings, and now a prompt is given to change the setting for either just the active chart or for all charts in the current chart page.

6.8	1360	New option when Arranging Charts	When arranging charts (from the "Charts" menu, or the Ctrl-A hot-key), you are now able to sort charts by bar period as well as by name (symbol).

6.8	1360	Quote Board bar period enhancements	- On a grid-style quote board, you can specify a custom bar period for each row (can either select from the dropdown or just type it in -- e.g. "40 min"). |- And then to easily change the bar period for the rest of the rows on a particular Quote Board tab, you can right-click on a row and select "Change period for ALL symbols on tab" (to match the selected row). |- You can also now specify the bar period for the "Filter" tab (however, since the symbols in the Filter tab are dynamic, the bar period specified for that tab will always apply to the entire tab).

6.8	1346	New option to hide scrollbars on chart	To gain more real estate on each chart (especially when many charts are tiled), you now have the option to hide the scrollbar at the bottom of the chart.  If you right-click on a chart, you will see this menu item about halfway down the list.  Even when the scrollbar is hidden, all the normal hot-key navigation keys will still work for scrolling (e.g. right/left arrow, PgUp/PgDn, Home/End), and you can still click-and-drag directly on the chart to move it left/right.

6.7	1325	Alert added for "Order Rejected"	When adding an alert, you can now setup an order alert for "Order Rejected" (along with "Order Submitted", "Order Filled" and "Order Cancelled").

6.7	1314	Dividend adjusting for Stocks	By default historical stock prices are now being back-adjusted for dividends (as well as splits).  This provides a better performance comparison between stocks -- e.g. a stock that only goes up a little but has big dividends may in reality outperform a stock that goes up a lot but has no dividends (the new dividend-adjusting accounts for that).  But if for some reason you wish to adjust only for the splits and not the dividends, there is an option on the Misc. tab of the Program Settings that will allow for this.

6.7	1314	Mutual Funds data now available	Data for over 26,000 mutual funds is now available.  Please call Genesis for information on how to add this to your account.

6.6	1303	Daily bars for "Combined" symbols now use Settle prices	- The "ELECTRONIC" symbols (e.g. ZB-067, G6E-067, ZS-067) will continue to use the last trade as the close of the daily bars.  These are the symbols that should be used for backtesting and for actual trading. |- But the "COMBINED" symbols (e.g. US-067, WU-067, S2-067) now use the exchange settle as the close of the daily bars.  These symbols can be used for the types of analysis and indicators which require using the exchange settles.  (NOTE: for these symbols, the daily bar's settle will not necessarily match the last trade of the intraday bars for that day.)

6.6	1288	A quote board can now be displayed while TradeNav is minimized	If you detach a quote board tab (select the quote board tab to detach, then right-click and choose "Detach Quote Tab"), that quote board will now minimize/restore separately from the rest of the Trade Navigator program.  This allows you to keep a quote board displayed even while the rest of the program is minimized.

6.6	1288	Strategy Baskets can now be Auto-traded	So now you can setup an entire basket of strategies to be auto-traded just as easily as a single strategy.

6.6	1288	Some new options for Auto-exits	There are two new options that you can set for auto exits: |1) Cancel all Manual Working orders in the opposite direction: if this flag is true, when the auto exit gets initiated because a position is changing, it will cancel all of the other manual entry orders in the opposite direction of the order that just filled. |2) Submit Market order if Stop is on wrong side of the market: if true, the auto exit will check before submitting a stop order and, if the stop price is now on the wrong side of the market, a market order will be submitted instead of the stop order. 

6.6	1288	Trade Profile charts are now available	A "Trade Profile" chart is a graphical organization of price and time information using letters and numbers, (markers), where each “marker” is placed at a price and symbolizes a bracket of time.  It allows one to observe the structure of the auction market as it unfolds.  These “markers” are called Time Price Opportunities, or TPOs.  This option can be selected from the "New Chart" dialog.

6.6	1288	Status report which can be viewed from your phone's browser, etc.	You can monitor the status of your connections and accounts on this machine using a web browser from anywhere (e.g. your cell phone, tablet or a remote computer).  A unique web page for this machine is updated on our website every 30 seconds with the status of your data stream and brokerage connections, the list of working orders, current positions and open equity, and the number of auto-trading items that are currently running.  Can be enabled from the "Settings" button on the Trade Console. (NOTE: this feature is currently only for Platinum traders with a live brokerage account.)


6.5	1251	Mods for backtesting synthetic grains after change in trading hours	As of April 8th, 2013 the pit session for grains will open an hour earlier.  The mods in this upgrade are necessary to allow the backtesting of synthetic grains to work properly for the data prior to that date.

6.5	1251	Monthly criteria now allowed	Custom criteria can now be created for Monthly timeframes as well as Daily and Weekly.

6.5	1251	Can now save up to 4 Trendline and Text drawing tools	For both the Trendline and Text drawing tools, you can now add up to 4 buttons to your drawing toolbar in order to save up to 4 different sets of defaults for each drawing tool.

6.5	1251	Spread Symbols for calendar spreads of grains and meats	Spread Symbols are now being supported specifically for calendar spreads of grains and meats: |- These particular spreads are highly-liquid instruments which are traded at the exchange as a true spread (instead of as separate individual legs), and clients who trade through the CQG interface can take advantage of the much lower margin requirements for the spreads. |- The format for these calendar Spread Symbols is designated as the first leg (a monthly futures contract) followed by a "-S#" to indicate it is spread against the "#" of contracts out.  For example, "ZC-201303-S1" indicates a Corn calendar spread of the March 2013 (ZC-201303) contract and the May 2013 contract (which is 1 contract into the future), and "ZC-201303-S2" indicates a spread of the March 2013 and the July 2013 contracts (since July is 2 contracts out from March). |- Since the spread is simply the difference between 2 monthly contracts, then the price for the spread can be either positive or negative depending on which monthly contract is trading higher than the other. |- IMPORTANT NOTE: whenever a Spread Symbol order gets FILLED, the positions get assigned to the individual LEGS (which is how it's handled at the brokerages).  Thus when orders are placed for a spread symbol, they will only show up for the spread symbol itself (not for the individual monthly contract legs).  But whenever an order for a spread symbol gets filled, the broker then treats the fills independently for each leg (each monthly contract). |- And because the fills for spread symbols need to be split into the individual legs, then automated trading for Spread Symbols is not possible (e.g. Auto-exits, Automated strategy trading, and TradeSense Order Groups).

6.5	1251	Minimum order quantity now supported for Forex trades	Since most Forex brokers utilize a "typical lot size" (e.g. trading in lots of 10,000), TradeNav will now verify that the quantity traded is not below the minimum lot size (usually 10,000).  And simulated trading of Forex will now also work the same.

6.5	1251	Enhanced version of Options Explorer	A much enhanced version of Options Explorer is included with this upgrade.

6.5	1251	Enhancements to Performance Reports for Actual Trades	There are now a number of places where you can easily show the Performance Reports for actual trades: |- From the Accounts and Positions grids (in the Trade Console Dashboard or popup windows), there is now a right-click menu item for "Performance Reports". |- From the Automated Trading Items window, the "Actual Performance" right-click menu item will show the peformance reports for actual trades related to the selected automated trading item, whereas the "Strategy Performance" menu item will show the performance reports for the hypothetical strategy trades. |- On the Trades tab of the Trade Tracker window (when editing a trading account), the "Reports" button brings up a dialog with many options for filtering the trades to include in the performance reports.  And the "Set Filter" button will bring up a similar dialog for displaying only certain trades in the grid.


6.4	1222	Support for new Equity Index Session Times	As of Nov. 18, 2012, the CME modified the trading day for the Equity Index products (e.g. ES, NQ, YM, etc) to start at 5:00pm Central Time and end at 4:15pm Central Time.  This upgrade is required for backwards-compatibility purposes (for displaying the past history of intraday data for these symbols).
6.4	1215	Monte Carlo analysis	There is a new "Monte Carlo Analysis" tab in the Performance Reports for running various types of simulations: |- Shuffled Trades (using the same trades but in random sequences) |- Profit/Drawdown Analysis (calculates the average profit/drawdown ratio for 1000 random trades -- which provides a good method for comparing the performance between strategies) |- Risk % Analysis (to compare the average drawdown when risking various percentages of your account with each trade)

6.4	1191	Many new brokers supported	The list of brokerages for which you can trade your account directly using the Trade Navigator platform has been growing.  Please see our website for more details (http://www.tradenavigator.com/brokers.php).
6.4	1191	Copy/Move a chart between chart pages	To copy or move a chart to a different chart page, just right-click on the chart and select "Copy/Move Chart" from the popup menu.
6.4	1191	Pre-defined toolbar templates	When you select "customize toolbars", there is now a dropdown where you can optionally select a pre-defined toolbar template to start from (e.g. Basic, Advanced, etc.).  After selecting a pre-defined template, of course, you will still be able to customize further by turning on/off the specific toolbar buttons that you desire.
6.4	1191	Favorite TSOG's (TradeSense Order Groups)	You can now select up to 4 of your favorite TradeSense Order Groups for quick placement from a chart: |- turn the order bar of the chart on (right-click on the chart and select "Show Order Bar") |- right-click somewhere on the order bar itself to display the order bar settings |- in the grid at the bottom left, turn on "TradeSense Groups" |- select "Edit TSOG" to manage your favorites
6.4	1191	New "cumulative view" for the Time and Sales window	To help decrease the number of new rows getting created every minute in the Time and Sales window, it can now be set to only display a new row when the traded price changes.  In this mode, the volume will continue to accumulate on the existing row until the price changes.  To change the display setting, select the "Settings" button on the Time and Sales window.
6.4	1191	Enhanced display for Auto-trading items	When an auto-trading item is setup to trade a continuous contract, the specific monthly contract is now displayed in both the "Strategy Position" and "Actual Position" columns (rolling from one contract to another should happen automatically but can now be more easily verified).  And both columns will now be highlighted in Red if either the position or the monthly contract does not currently match between the Strategy and Actual positions.  (NOTE: creating Auto-trading items requires the Platinum version of Trade Navigator.)

6.3	1174	"Traders Dynamic Index" chart study	A comprehensive but helpful indicator that uses RSI and moving averages along with some on-the-fly volatility calculations to offer the trader a full picture of the current market situation.
6.3	1174	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- some additional enhancements of existing features |- some fixes for some of the new 6.3 features
6.3	1168	Fib Circles/Arcs has 2 modes	For the Fib Circles/Arcs drawing tool, you can now use the "As ratios of diagonal line (circular)" option to select between the following 2 modes: |- Where the circles are ratios of the Time and Date separately (i.e. each circle is the specified ratio of the height and width of where the 2nd point was drawn). |- Where the circles are ratios of the Diagonal Line (i.e. circles are drawn as the specified ratios on the diagonal line to where the 2nd point was drawn).
6.3	1162	New semi-log option for drawing tools	When on a semi-log chart, there is now an additional option in the chart's right-click popup menu to "Use semi-log for drawing tools".  This mode controls whether the drawing tools will be moved and calculated based on the actual prices or the logs of the prices.  For example, this option will cause the Fibonnaci ratios for drawing tools to be either "visual ratios" (if based on the semi-log scale) or as "price ratios" (if based on the prices themselves).
6.3	1143	Strategy Basket enhancements	A "strategy basket" allows you to build a basket of various strategy/symbol combinations and display the combined performance results.  Some enhancements have been added to this feature to allow an easier method for synchronizing the start/end dates of all the basket items, as well as now being able to specify the number of contracts being traded for each basket item.  (NOTE: this features requires "Platinum".)
6.3	1141	New option when selecting Auto-exit Favorites	When selecting your Auto-Exit Favorites (associated with the A/B/C/D buttons on the order bar of the chart or price ladder), you can now choose to either be in "Symbol mode" (which allows selecting a different set of favorite auto-exits for each market) or in "Global mode" (which will use the same set of favorite auto-exits for all markets).
6.3	1141	Chart Condition Alerts enhancements	A number of enhancements have been made to the Chart Condition Alerts.  To use them: |- go to the Alerts Setup (click on the Bell icon in the toolbar) |- click on the "Add Alert" button and select the "Chart Condition Alert" option |- you can then create one or more conditions based on indicators on the active chart that will trigger the alert when true |- when you save the conditions, you can then setup one or more actions to take place when the alert is triggered (e.g. popup a message, play a sound, send an email or text message, etc.)
6.3	1141	More Trade Profile enhancements	Some more efficiency and feature enhancements have been made for the "Trade Profile" window (NOTE: this feature may require a special enablement)

6.2	1127	Many enhancements to the "Options Explorer"	The newest version of "Options Explorer" (formerly known as Options Navigator) has been revamped with an enhanced look-and-feel, along with many enhanced features.	OPTNAV

6.2	1126	Fibonacci Time Zone enhancement	Two methods are now available for drawing Fibonacci Time Zones:  the fibonacci sequence can be used to draw lines as either "number of bars from the FIRST line" or as "number of bars from the PREVIOUS line".
6.2	1121	Trade Profile enhancements	Enhancements to the "Trade Profile" window (NOTE: this feature may require a special enablement): |- can display TPO (time price opportunity) as either blocks or alpha-numeric characters |- can set extra spacing at left as well as top/bottom |- new color options for TPO and background |- can now include coloring for "Value Area" and "POC" (point of control) for both volume and TPO, as well as standard deviation and mean price
6.2	1121	Ability to flip a comparison symbol (upside down)	When a comparison symbol is being overlayed, there is now an option in the chart settings to "flip" the data (so the bars or line is upside down).
6.2	1113	Toolbuttons to easily increase/decrease font size for grids and charts	The "T+" and "-T" toolbar buttons can be used to quickly increase or decrease the text size of the grid or text on the currently active form or chart.  These buttons can be added to your toolbar by using the Customize Toolbars (under the View menu) -- they will be listed towards the bottom of the "Windows toolbar" section.
6.2	1113	Journal enhancements	Along with being able to create a journal entry for an order, you can now also create generic journal entries that are organized by date.  And you can easily attach an image of a current chart to store with each journal entry.  Journals can be accessed either through the View menu or the Journals button on the Trade Console toolbar.

6.1	1111	A few enhancements and fixes for some of the new 6.1 features
6.1	1101	"Undo" button for drawing tools	There is now an Undo button on the drawing toolbar.  It is intended to only undo the last action related to a drawing tool on a chart (e.g. adding, removing, or editing a drawing tool).
6.1	1101	New "Genesis Simulated Broker" for simulated accounts	A new option for simulated accounts is to use the Genesis TradeServer for the holding and filling of simulated orders.  The primary advantage to this is that the orders for simulated accounts can be held and filled even when streaming has been turned off or your Trade Navigator program is not running.
6.1	1101	Some significant efficiency enhancements	You will likely see some significant benefit if you are doing any of the following: |- streaming depth-of-market on price ladders (our new method for passing this data is MUCH more efficient) |- switching back and forth between chart pages (we are now caching much of the info to make it faster to switch back to a chart page that had already been loaded) |- creating many charts on a chart page (since each chart now uses less system resources)
6.1	1101	Auto-trading enhancements	An auto-trading item can now be setup to trade a continuous contract as well as an individual contract.  And a number of other enhancements and fixes have also been implemented in order to make the auto-trading work much better in general.  (NOTE: this features requires "Platinum".)

6.0	1072	New "Seasonal Analysis" chart (for Platinum clients)	When creating a new chart, there is now an option for a "Seasonal Analysis" type of chart.  You can define a cycle length (e.g. "1 year", "4 years", etc) and a bar period (e.g. daily or weekly), and the chart will display the average trend for All cycles, the Bullish cycles, the Bearish cycles, and the current cycle for comparison.  All cycle trends are displayed as percent changes from the beginning to the end of the cycle.  There is also an option to display all the past cycles on the same chart.  (NOTE: this features requires Platinum.)
6.0	1072	A few new indicators and studies	- "Relative Vigor Index" study (by John Ehlers) |- "Relative Volatility Index" study (by Donald Dorsey) |- a new moving average which utilizes a "triangular weighting" method ("MovingAvgTri") |- new "Cycle Trend" studies and indicators (requires either Platinum or Advanced Seasonal Cycles)
6.0	1069	*** Upgrade required for online trading per new CME requirements ***	An upgrade to this version may be required for online trading with certain brokers.  This version includes updated Broker Interfaces which will send the new flags on orders now required by the CME.	B_LIND,B_MANX,B_OPTMS,B_OPVEST,B_RITH,B_VISION,B_ZFIRE,B_TRAN,B_PFG
6.0	1056	New "Ribbon" chart display style	The "ribbon" display style colors the area between 2 indicators: |- you can choose this display style from the "Type" dropdown of the chart settings for an indicator |- after selecting that style, you will then be prompted to select the other indicator to be associated with that ribbon
6.0	1056	Chart background can now use a gradient color	The chart settings now allow an option for a gradient background color (which causes the background to slowly transition from one color at the top to another color at the bottom).
6.0	1056	Bid/ask prices can be shown on box-style quote board	In the quote board settings (you can right-click on the quote board to edit the settings), there is a new option to allow displaying the best bid and ask on the box-style quote board.
6.0	1056	New "Dollars per Trade" option for backtesting stocks	This option causes each trade to be the same dollar amount (which means the number of shares per trade will decrease as the entry price for a trade increases).  This is now the recommended option when backtesting stocks since it allows the SAME PERCENTAGE move in the stock's price to reflect the SAME PROFIT OR LOSS as a dollar amount, regardless of how high or low the stock's price is at that time.
6.0	1056	Sharpe Ratio and Monthly Profit Analysis added to performance report	The monthly and annualized Sharpe Ratios are now displayed on the performance report, along with the Average and Standard Deviation of Monthly Profits (which are the primary components involved in the Sharpe Ratio calculations).
6.0	1056	Money Management can now base risk on either Largest or Average Loss	For the Standard Money Management report, you can now choose your Risk% to be either based on the Average Loss (where you would typically use a relatively small Risk% since based on a typical loss), or based on the Largest Loss (where you would typically be using a relatively larger Risk% since based on more of a worst-case scenario).
6.0	1056	New Price Ladder option to display current buy/sell volume	There are now 3 options for the volume displayed beside the price (center column of the ladder): |- volume at the Last Traded Price (which is what price ladders typically display) |- current Buy/Sell volume (the accumulating volumes at both the current best bid and ask prices) |- or nothing (if you would rather just decrease the width of the column)
6.0	1056	Price Ladder price cells can now be custom highlighted	You can now click on a cell in the center price column of the ladder to select an outline color for that cell (e.g. in order to temporarily highlight current support/resistance price levels).
6.0	1056	New buttons for Favorite Auto-exits	From the list of Auto-exits (which you see whenever you turn an auto-exit on), you can now choose up to 4 "favorites" (using the A/B/C/D buttons).  When favorites have been selected, the A/B/C/D buttons are displayed in the order bar (just above the Auto-exit checkbox) on both charts and price ladders in order to quickly select your favorite auto-exit strategy prior to entering a position.
'6.0	1056	Many enhancements to the "Options Explorer"	The newest version of "Options Explorer" (formerly known as Options Navigator) has been revamped with an enhanced look-and-feel, along with many enhanced features.	OPTNAV

'6.0	1056	New "Fib Clusters" drawing tool
'6.0	1056	New ABCD and Gartley drawing tools
'6.0	1056	Schiff options added to the Andrews Pitchfork drawing tool

5.6	1032	A few more enhancements and fixes	- the "Expectancy %" and "CPC Index" have been added to the strategy performance summary report |- the Price Ladder now has a Volume toolbar button to more quickly show or hide the Volume column |- the volume next to the last traded price in the Price Ladder has been fixed to update more accurately |- the issue related to minimized detached charts has been fixed
5.6	1029	Upgraded the LindFinancial DLL's	We are now using the most recent version of LindFinancial's DLL's.	B_LIND,B_MANX
5.6	1025	More toolbar button sizes available	Now either large or small icons can be selected for the toolbar buttons, and either size can optionally have the button text included (this also now includes all the drawing tool buttons).  To see the options, click on the "Customize Toolbars" button.
5.6	1015	TradeSense Orders Groups	Provides the ability to create orders based on TradeSense expressions, as well as put them into a group where one order can trigger and/or cancel other orders.  (Note: this feature requires purchasing the Gold or Platinum version -- please call Sales for more information.)
5.6	1015	TradeSense Auto-exits	To provide more flexibility, auto-exit orders can now be based on TradeSense expressions.  (Note: this feature requires purchasing the Gold or Platinum version -- please call Sales for more information.)
5.6	1015	Instant Replay improvements	Many minor modifications and improvements to the instant replay feature.

5.5	993	Larger toolbar icon option	Under "customize toolbars", you can now select the option to display larger toolbar icons on the toolbar buttons.

5.5	993	The new Larry Williams "Indicator Analyst"	To forecast future trend based on finding matching indicator patterns from the past history (requires the LWIA enablement).	LWIA

5.5	993	New "Percent Change" option for charts	A chart pane can now be scaled to display the "percent change" (so each value of the price or indicator is displayed as the percent up/down from the left-most value on the chart): |- to change for an existing pane, edit the chart settings, select the pane, and select "Percent change" scale |- or when adding a comparison symbol, the option to display as a percent change chart is now given |- and when creating a new chart, the option for a percent change chart is now given

5.5	993	Enhanced interface for the "Filters" editor	The criteria which can be added to the filter is now displayed in more of a heirarchical fashion (in order to better categorize all the various items which can be added).

5.5	993	Sector/subsector toolbar button enhancement	The sector/subsector toolbar button itself now displays the actual name of the associated sector or subsector for the currently selected stock.	S

5.5	993	Additional entry points for the "Condition Builder"	The "Condition Builder" is an extremely useful tool for quickly and easily building a condition based off of indicators in the currently selected chart.  So additional options have now been added in order to better utilize that tool (e.g. when creating a new criteria, highlight bar, etc).


5.4	979	Fix for "lockup" issue after abnormal disconnect from streaming	Under certain conditions, an abnormal disconnect from streaming was sometimes causing the program to "hang" (lock up, crash, etc).  The cause of that issue has now been identified and fixed.	RTG

5.4	978	A number of minor enhancements

5.4	963	New snapshot reports for stocks	When selecting a stock symbol with the "Snapshot" window, there are now 3 new reports that can be viewed for that company: Cash Flow, Balance Sheet, and Income.  And you can select either Annual or Quarterly for any of them.	S

5.4	963	Sector Analysis tool	There is a new analysis tool in the Reports menu that will rank sectors and subsectors per their relative performance.  You can select various timeframes to analyze, and click on a sector in order to drilldown to view its subsectors.	SECTOR

5.4	963	"Daily net change" for electronic symbols now using the Pit settles	The daily net change (displayed in the quote board and in upper-right corner of charts) for all futures symbols are now using the previous session's pit settle to calculate the delta from.  For example, the net change for ZB-067, US-067 and TQ-067 will all be calculated from the prior settle for TQ (i.e. the pit).	F

5.4	962	Enhancements to the Trade Console	- clicking on the Trade Console button will now dropdown the Trade Console toolbar, which has its own set of buttons for quick access to trading info |- the "dashboard" view will dropdown a summary of the working orders, open positions and account equity|- detailed information about orders, fills, positions, accounts, etc. can be displayed in separate windows which can then be independently positioned on your screen |- additional "hot-key columns" have been added to the grids to quickly modify an order, cancel an order, flatten a position, etc.

5.4	962	OCO and auto-exit orders can now be held at PFG	OCO orders (orders linked to other orders as "Order-cancel-order") can now be held on the PFG servers so the link is maintained whether TradeNav is running or not.  This includes the auto-exit OCO orders.	B_PFG

5.4	962	Simulated orders can now be parked when shutting down TradeNav	Whenever you stop streaming or shut down TradeNav, you now have the option to either park all of the simulated orders that are still working or just cancel them.  (Note: this does not apply to auto-exit orders since they are always recreated when streaming is restarted.)	RTG

5.4	962	Show open entries on the Price Ladder	All the open entries for the current position can now be displayed in a column of the Price Ladder.  This option is available in the ladder's order bar configuration.

5.4	962	Alert bell displayed on box-style quote board	The box-style quote board will now display an Alert Bell for symbols which have any alerts associated with them.  Clicking on the bell will quickly allow you to see and edit the alerts for that symbol.


5.3	956	A few enhancements related to streaming	- improved memory caching with "NextGen" setting |- a few more efficiency mods to the quote board |- better realtime updating of Point-and-figure and Kagi charts |- improved scrolling with the Time and Sales window while streaming is on |- allow Current Session Update to run while streaming with NextGen	RTG

5.3	947	*** New "NextGen" setting available for streaming ***	We are now releasing our newer improved method for refreshing data while streaming.  This method is much faster and more efficient when first starting streaming, when changing to a new symbol, and during heavy market activity. |You can edit the "Program Settings" and select either "NextGen" (for the new method) or "Classic" (to continue using the older method).	RTG

5.3	947	Many enhancements and new features for Option Navigator		OPTNAV

5.3	947	Now supports the new Stock Option symbology	Due to changes mandated by the exchange, the old 5-letter stock option codes no longer exist.  Instead, stock options are now specified by using a full expiration date and strike price -- e.g. "IBM 20100522 C125" (a May 2010 Call at 125.00 for IBM).|Upgrading to 5.3 is required in order to continue working with stock options.	SO

5.3	947	Some misc. mods and enhancements	- improved coloring for the toolbars (e.g. trade console button now changes color depending on whether open orders/positions exist or not, and a lighter color is now used when the mouse hovers over a button) |- improved handling of column widths for the price ladder |- improved method for adding a trendline channel |- improved efficiency when using quote board tab alerts


5.2	937	Email and Text alerts	Genesis is now providing a delivery system for sending emails and text messages to your cell phone from your own custom alerts. When creating a new email alert, you can now just leave the "Outgoing Mail Server" blank in order to use the new delivery system.

5.2	932	Linked Inputs for chart settings	When inputs for multiple indicators within a chart template are intended to remain the same as each other, you can now "link" them in order to easily change the setting in just one place.  To link inputs of multiple indicators:|- First enter the same variable name (starting with an '&') as the value for each input to be linked.|- Then the value for each linked input can be easily modified in the 'Linked Inputs' section (a few rows down in the left grid of the chart settings).

5.1	922	Bracket Order button (for an OCO order)	To add the Bracket Order button to your order bar, right-click on the order bar to bring up the settings and turn on the Bracket Order in the buttons grid.  You can select the Bracket Order button, then click above and below the market to create 2 orders which are OCO'd together (one order cancels the other).

5.0	900	Option Navigator enhancements		OPTNAV

5.0	890	*** Version 5.0 -- many new features ***	- detachable charts (e.g. to move a chart to a separate monitor) |- allows trading a continuous contract (e.g. ES-067) from the chart |- a new drawing tool for price alerts |- backup and restore capabilities (to easily backup/restore all your custom settings and libraries) |- advanced trade reports and filtering with some additional journaling features |- enhanced toolbars


4.3	860	Some efficiency enhancements for Instant Replay	The "Instant Replay" feature will now run much faster when replaying the bars on an intraday chart.

4.3	857	Enhanced dropdown menu for Templates and Pages	To avoid the tedious up/down scrolling for a very long list of Templates or Pages, the new dropdown menus can now show multiple columns of names along with arrows to page left and right.  And the items within the menu dropdowns can be easily moved with a simple click-and-drag.

4.3	850	More efficiency enhancements for realtime streaming	An improved caching mechanism has been implemented for better efficiency of streaming data during heavy market activity.  For example, the noticeable bog-down that used to happen when an intraday chart started a new bar during an active market should no longer happen.
 
4.3	848	TradeSense variables	In the TradeSense editor (e.g. when editing a function), you can now use the ":=" operator to assign an expression to a variable (a name which begins with "&"), and then refer to that variable in subsequent expression lines.  This can serve to greatly simplify extremely long or nested expressions.||For example, here is some code for the TEMA function which uses 3 variables in order to avoid the triple nesting that would be required if trying to define it with a single expression ...|  &SingleMA := MovingAvgX (Expression, Periods)|  &DoubleMA := MovingAvgX (&SingleMA, Periods)|  &TripleMA := MovingAvgX (&DoubleMA, Periods)|  3 * &SingleMA - 3 * &DoubleMA + &TripleMA

4.3	848	Trade Profile	This report displays which price levels have traded at various time periods of the trading session.  A letter or character, which can be assigned to a specific time period of the day, is displayed at each price level that has been traded. |(NOTE: this feature is only enabled for specific streaming packages -- please call Genesis Sales for more details.)

4.3	848	New "Trend Channel" drawing tool	Draws a regular trendline on the first two clicks and then the 3rd click draws a parallel trendline.  The result is a trendline channel which will stay parallel when moved or extended.

4.3	848	Price alerts are now interactive with charts	A new price alert drawing tool (a bell with an up/down arrow) can now be used on a chart to easily create a price alert for that symbol.  And when a price alert has been created for a specific symbol, a bell icon will be displayed on any chart of that symbol.  The bell icon on a chart can be dragged to easily adjust the price level of the alert, or clicked on to edit the price alert.


4.2	839	Rockwell library enhancements	Some enhancements have been made to the Rockwell libraries.	ROCKS,ROCKD,ROCKF
4.2	838	Some streaming improvements	Some recent modifications have been made to the GenesisRT.exe program (for realtime streaming): |- a fix to handle storage for extremely large volume trading days |- some improved logging for diagnostic purposes |- better handling of "combined" symbols (electronic+pit)
4.2	835	*** Woodies CCI update ***	The newer Woodies templates and chart pages have been updated to allow for more easily displaying the SideWinder and Pivots.	WOODCCI
4.2	835	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- further improvements have been made to the loading of intraday charts (to retain the original speed of the faster-loading charts while still providing the responsiveness required for slower-loading charts) |- expired contracts have been fixed to work as they did prior to build 833 (the "End of data" option can be used instead of needing to set the "To date")
4.2	834	*** Efficiency enhancements for PFG Traders ***	Some enhancements have been implemented related to the efficiency of refreshing orders and fills from PFG.	B_PFG
4.2	833	Better loading for intraday charts with many days of data	For intraday charts with many days of data to load (i.e. higher than 10), the data is now being loaded a week at a time (most recent data first).  While this data is loading, you will see the word "Loading" in the chart caption -- and if you decide too much data is being loaded, you can edit the chart settings (even while the data is still loading) and change the number of days to load.
4.2	831	*** Significant efficiency improvements when realtime streaming ***	When streaming data, the chart indicators calculations are MUCH faster than in previous versions -- up to 20 times faster for indicators which involve highly intensive calculations.
4.2	831	Charting enhancements	- The 'Esc' hotkey will now just put the chart back into Auto-scale mode (like versions prior to 4.1), whereas the 'Enter' hotkey will now perform the full "Chart Reset" (which puts the chart at the end of data and rescales both the price and dates axes). |- A new "Arrow" drawing tool has been added (it does exactly what the text-edit arrow does but without the text). |- A "Show value in axis" option has been added to more drawing tools -- the Regression channel and Horizonal line (which shows in the price axis), as well as the Vertical line (which shows in the dates axis at the bottom). |- The Linear Regression channels on a logarithmic chart will now display as parallel lines (since the calculations are now based on the logarithms of the prices).
4.2	831	Order Journaling	- There is now an "Auto Journal" setting which will automatically bring up an order journal dialog anytime that an order is manually submitted, amended, or cancelled.  This setting can be turned on or off on the chart, ladder, edit order form, or Settings button on the Trade Console. |- There is also a "View Journal" option on the Trading menu of the main menu, the right click menus of grids on the Trade Console, and a Journals button on the Trade Console that will allow you to bring up a form with the trading Journal entries in a grid with full sorting capabilities and filtering options.

4.1	825	Major enhancements to chart moving, saving and auto-resizing	- A red arrow now appears in the chart's lower right corner when you scroll backward or forward from the "normal end" of the data.  This both provides a visual reminder that you are not at the end of the data, as well as an easy way to go to the end of the data by clicking on the red arrow (or just hitting the 'End' key).  You can use the "# blank bars" chart setting to define how many empty bars are displayed when you go to the "normal end". |- By default the charts are now always in "auto-scale" mode (so the price scale automatically changes to fit the data as you scroll).  If you drag the chart sideways the chart will remain in auto-scale mode -- BUT if you drag the chart up/down (quickly enough) then the auto-scale will automatically be disabled to allow you to manually drag the chart up/down. |- There is now a "Chart Reset" button on the toolbar (blue arrows in a triangular shape) that will do the same thing as hitting the 'Esc' key: moves to the end of data, sets the auto-scale back on, and resets to the default bar spacing (the default bar spacing can be custom-set by right-clicking on the red arrow). |- When the program starts up or a chart page is restored, each chart is now restored exactly how it looked when saved (i.e. the same price bars are in the same horizontal and vertical location).  The exception of course is that if the chart was at the end of data when saved, it will also be restored to the new end of data (since there may be newer data bars now than when saved). |- Charts are now always kept auto-sized based on their ratios within the main chart area.  So as the main chart area is resized, the location and size of each chart is automatically adjusted accordingly.

4.0	819	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- some efficiency tweaks and fixes have been done for some of the drawing tools|- the price ladder has a new option to color only the bid/ask with the largest size|- an option has been added on the 'Tick Data' tab to allow for faster backtesting of strategies|- the chart's countdown timer panel has been fixed to accommodate half-ticks for Bonds|- settle prices are now being ignored for all 'combined' symbols (e.g. GC2, US, NG2)
4.0	812	Order bar is more customizable	You can now select which buttons and labels are displayed on the order bar (charts and price ladders) and the order in which they appear.
4.0	810	Can edit/view ticks in bar of chart	Double-clicking a bar on a chart will display the exact ticks (trades) that make up that bar.
4.0	808	Important upgrade for PFG customers	This upgrade contains some important enhancements related to the PFG broker interface.	B_PFG
4.0	808	Volume filter for Time & Sales	The Time and Sales window can now be filtered to show only trades within a specified range of volumes.

4.0	807	More efficient loading of Forex data
4.0	807	Newer Woodies Patterns library	The enhanced set of Woodies pattern functions have been included, along with the newer "WCCI Basic Room" chart template.	WOODCCI
4.0	806	Important upgrade for TransAct customers	This upgrade contains some important updates related to the CBOT/CME merger.	B_TRAN
4.0	806	Misc. enhancements	- the 'What If' mode is now supported for breakout bars |- the Countdown Timer is now supported for volume per bar and trades per bar charts |- new option for drawing tool alerts to wait until the bar has completed |- custom bar periods are now supported on the grid-style quote board tabs |- additional paragraph formatting options for the text drawing tool |- additional efficiency improvements for realtime streaming

4.0	800	Custom session start/end times for charts	When you edit the chart settings and select "Dates Axis", you can modify the start/end times for the trading session (intraday charts only).|Note: this feature is only enabled for clients who have the 'Gold' or 'Platinum' version of Trade Navigator or are subscribed to at least the 'Standard' monthly data package.

4.0	800	Breakout bars (a.k.a. Range bars)	Breakout bars are like price range bars: each bar is a specified price range, and the first tick outside that price range starts a new bar.  The height of all the bars (i.e. range) will usually be the specified price range, but will sometimes be less (e.g. if the next trade gapped up or down).  Either go to custom bar period and select the "Breakout" option, or just type something like "10b" directly into the bar period dropdown on the toolbar.|Note: this feature is only enabled for clients who have the 'Gold' or 'Platinum' version of Trade Navigator or are subscribed to at least the 'Standard' monthly data package.

4.0	800	"What If" chart mode	There is a new button on the charting tool bar called "What-If".  When this button is depressed, a dashed line appears to the right of the close of the last price bar.  You can grab this dashed line and move it up or down to change the close of that last price bar and see how all the indicators are affected.  (This mode does not currently work for the following types of bar periods: Point & Figure, Kagi, Renko).|Note: this feature is only enabled for clients who have purchased either the 'Gold' or 'Platinum' version of Trade Navigator.

4.0	800	Detachable Quote Board tabs	When you right-click on the QB, there is new option to "Detach Quote Tab".  Selecting this will move that quote tab out to a separate window.  Closing the window will re-attach it back to the main quote window.|Note: this feature is only enabled for clients who have purchased either the 'Gold' or 'Platinum' version of Trade Navigator.

4.0	800	Indicator Groupings	When you edit the chart settings, you can now use the 'Group' button to group multiple indicators such that they can all be easily turned on/off with a single click.

4.0	800	Option to flatten position if an auto-exit order happens to get rejected	There is now an option on the auto exit management form of what to do if an auto exit order gets rejected: automatically flatten position, prompt if want to flatten position, or do nothing.  The default is to automatically flatten position.

3.05	784	Various enhancements and fixes	- a new "pivot point" drawing tool |- misc. other drawing tool enhancements and fixes |- the Help system now works under Vista
3.05	777	Heikin-Ashi Candlesticks	Heikin-Ashi candlesticks (with specially calculated Open, High, Low, Close values) can now be easily plotted on a chart.  Click on the "Add to Chart" button and select Heikin-Ashi in the list of studies.|Note: this feature is only enabled for clients who have purchased either the Gold or Platinum version of Trade Navigator.
3.05	777	Important Trading enhancements	A few examples: |- improvements with auto-exits (can now do half & quarter ticks, better verifications) |- improved consistency with information being displayed in various places (trade console, charts, etc) |- performance reports can now be run for simulated and online trading accounts 

3.04	766	Streaming Efficiency Service Pack	Some efficiency-related improvements have been made to the data streaming in order to better accomodate the recent significant increase in market activity.	RTG
3.04	761	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- when drawing tools are snapped to the high or low of a bar, we now detect which minute of the day that the high/low was reached (so will display correctly even when dropping to lower time resolutions) |- a performance issue has been fixed where an invalid TradeSense expression would sometimes bog down the rest of the chart indicators during realtime streaming |- a fix has been added to eliminate the sparodic spikes that would sometimes occur on the last bar of the day for intraday Forex data |- various other minor fixes for drawing tools
3.04	759	Important update for eSignal streaming	An upgrade is required to correctly stream the CME and CBOT electronic symbols from eSignal (since eSignal just moved those symbols to the "CMEE" and "CBTE" exchanges).	RTE
3.04	759	Pivot Point enhancements	The pivot point studies now use the "rectangles" display style and have included an option to display only for the current day.  (Note: you may need to re-apply the chart template or re-add the studies to your existing charts.)
3.04	753	Major enhancements to Alerts	- all alert popups are now in a list (so can easily see history) |- alerts can now be automatically reenabled (so will trigger whenever goes back to false then true again) |- a sound alert can be played continuously (then click on the alert popup to stop the sound)
3.04	753	Price ladders are now restored at startup	Any Price Ladders and Time & Sales windows are now saved and restored whenever TradeNav is shut down and restarted.
3.04	753	Additional display options for Chart Orders	- orders can be drawn with an extended horizontal line across the entire chart |- the average entry can be displayed as a horizontal line across the chart
3.04	753	Drawing tool enhancements	- the click-and-drag tools can also be drawn by clicking once to start then clicking again to end |- more display options have been added to the Fibonacci tools
3.04	753	Online trading enhancements	- auto-exit orders are now day orders (to avoid the risk of GTC) and are regenerated when a new session begins |- manual changes to the auto-exit orders are now saved and restored when TradeNav is restarted |- the auto-exit profit now has an option to not exit the entire position (to let your profit run)
3.04	753	Can display values for "hidden" indicators	To display the value of an indicator in the chart pane while hiding the indicator line itself, set the Appearance Type dropdown for that indicator to "None".

3.03	740	Coast Trading buttons on toolbar	There are now buttons on the drawing toolbar in order to easily toggle the DiNapoli indicators on/off.	CTP
3.03	740	Some drawing tools enhancements	- Repeat Draw mode: can set this button on to quickly draw multiple drawing tools on a chart |- Quick delete: can right-click on a drawing tool button to delete the last drawn tool of that type |- Fib line delete: can right-click on a line of fibonacci drawing tool to delete just that line |- a bracket tool has been added to draw { } on a chart |- a fibonacci time extension tool has been added (a 3-click tool for fib ratios on the time axis)
3.03	735	Online broker enhancements	- when connecting to your online broker, your current positions will now be displayed for your verification before TradeNav will take any auto-trading action (e.g. auto-exits, automated strategy) |- modifications made manually to auto-exits (e.g. moving a stop-loss up or down) are now saved when exiting TradeNav and restored when restarting and connecting again to your online broker |- flat positions are no longer displayed in the positions grid of the trade console
3.03	735	Show empty bars for both daily and intraday charts	The "show empty bars" option in the Dates Axis of the chart settings will now work for both daily and intraday charts.  For daily charts, empty bars will be shown for holidays.  For intraday charts, bars with no trading activity will be shown between traded bars (e.g. a 5-minute bar with no trading activity).
3.03	730	Streaming Replay	Another mode has been added to the Instant Replay feature: in addition to quickly replaying multiple days or weeks of data (e.g. updating 5 minutes at a time), you can now replay the streaming data tick-by-tick for a day.  This feature currently only supports the major electronic futures, is only available for data since mid-November 2006, and requires a specific data subscription level (call Genesis Sales for more information).
3.03	730	Footprint modules (IOAMT)	The "Footprint" modules have been added to support the Institute of Auction Market Theory (see www.ioamt.com for more details).  These modules require an extra monthly fee.

3.02	706	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- you can now hide/show the buttons on the quote board (right-click on quote board for the option) |- when auto-scale is turned off for a chart, the 'R' hotkey will now rescale the price scale for the displayed data |- on the price ladder or chart, dragging one order on top of another order will now combine the orders |- the Fibonacci tools now allow specifying different colors for each ratio |- changes have been made to better accommodate a multiple-monitor setup
3.02	700	Auto Exit Orders	Your trading can be configured to automatically maintain stop loss, trailing stops, and/or profit targets to exit your position whenever a position is entered.  You can select from any of the exit configurations supplied, or you can create your own custom configuration.

3.01	693	Misc. enhancements and fixes	- the Woodies countdown will now work on charts with delayed data |- the auto-arranging of charts once they are tiled should work much better |- replay mode should work better now symbols which trade overnight |- and a few other minor fixes from the original release of 3.01
3.01	688	Enhanced Woodies charts	The Woodies charts will now display the advanced information that Woodies traders like to see.  All of your existing Woodies charts should get converted automatically -- but if they do not, you just need to re-apply the "Woodies CCI" chart template that comes with the upgrade.
3.01	688	Jurik indicators	Trade Navigator can now use the indicators written by Mark Jurik.  The JMA, DMX, RSX and VEL functions will automatically be displayed in the list of available indicators after purchasing and installing the JRS_UT.DLL from Jurik Research (see www.JurikRes.com for more information).
3.01	688	Misc. enhancements	- realtime streaming should now work more efficiently during fast market conditions |- time zone adjustments are now being made for non-US markets when trading from a simulated account |- a background image with a grid of dots has been added to the main app to help when manually aligning charts

3.00	677	Delay detection for realtime streaming	We are now able to monitor the realtime streaming from Genesis on your machine in order to detect delays.  If the data stream falls behind for any reason (e.g. issues related to bandwidth, internet connectivity, Genesis servers, local hardware/CPU, etc.), a red message will display in the status bar to indicate how many seconds the data stream is currently behind.
'3.00	675	Important Upgrade for Photon	Important enhancements related to streaming data from the Photon servers.	PHOT
3.00	675	More misc. enhancements	- the "cycle" functions can now be used with moving averages, correlation, etc. |- performance improvements related to recalculating chart indicators (e.g. with Woodies templates) |- more performance improvements related to alerts, the price ladder, and live trading
3.00	675	VantagePoint ETF's	The new ETF's (Genesis symbols starting with $$) can be exported to CSI files for the VantagePoint program.	VPT
3.00	664	Enhancements related to live trading	Important enhancements were added to help insure positions are kept in-synch with the brokerage server.	TRAN
3.00	653	Misc. enhancements	- Woodies library now included (2 prebuilt chart templates can be found in the 'Templates' dropdown) |- 'combined' symbols (electronic plus pit) can now be streamed delayed along with electronic symbols realtime |- some minor fixes and efficiency enhancements have been made to the price ladder
3.00	642	Trading directly from Charts and Price Ladders	Orders can be displayed, submitted, edited and cancelled from either a chart or a price ladder.

2.11	633	Spread charts can update realtime	Spread charts will now update realtime when realtime streaming is active.  A spread chart calculates the spread itself as the primary data (displayed as a line in the price pane), and all the other indicators on the chart (e.g. RSI, stochastics, etc.) are based on the spread.
2.11	633	Automatic dual connection protocols	Trade Navigator will now by default first try connecting to Genesis using the preferred HTTP protocol, and if that fails will automatically retry using the FTP protocol
2.11	625	Major enhancements to ALERTS (for charting, quote board, orders, etc.)	The Alerts button on the toolbar allows you to easily manage all your Trade Navigator alerts, as well as see the history of when alerts have triggered.  One or more actions (e.g. popup message, cell color, email/page, log to file, place an order, etc.) can be assigned to each alert.  Many new alert types have been added ... |- Price alert: a simple alert based on if a symbol's price gets up or down to the specified levels |- Quote Board alert: an alert can now be assigned to either a specific quote board cell (symbol and column) or to an entire quote board column (for all symbols on that tab) |- Drawing Tool alerts: simple alerts which can be tied to certain drawing tools (e.g. trendlines and horizontal lines) to indicate when the price on the chart crosses that line -- just right-click on the drawing tool and select "Add Alert" |- Chart Condition alerts: an advanced alert which can be based on one or more indicators on the chart |- Order alerts: alerts based on an order being submitted, filled, cancelled, etc. |- Time alerts: a simple one-time or recurring alert based on the time of day |- TradeSense alerts: an advanced alert based on any valid TradeSense expression
2.11	625	Symbol link to active chart	The symbol linking that was added in version 2.10 has been enhanced to allow linking a non-chart window (e.g. the symbol grid) to the "active chart" (whichever chart is currently in the foreground).  To do this, click on the "S" color link button in the window's title bar and select the black "active chart" color from the dropdown.
2.11	625	Quote board tab can now be linked to a symbol group or filter	One of the tabs on the quote board can now be linked to either a symbol group or a filter.  The symbols on that tab will be automatically updated whenever the symbol group or filter is changed (e.g. when the filter is recalculated after a daily download).
2.11	625	Spread charts	When creating a new chart, you can now choose between a standard chart (based on a specific symbol) or a spread chart (based on combining two or more symbols mathematically).  The spread definition can be custom-defined, or selected from previously saved spread configurations.  A spread chart calculates the spread itself as the primary data (displayed as a line in the price pane), and all the other indicators on the chart (e.g. RSI, stochastics, etc.) are based on the spread.
'2.11	625	Enhanced seasonals (cycle analysis functions)- of generic expression, year filter, cumulative
2.11	625	Misc. enhancements	Some other misc. enhancements: |- you can now easily copy the chart settings of one chart to all the other charts (choose "Copy settings to other charts" from the Templates dropdown) |- there are now some options for how often to recalculate the chart indicators when realtime streaming is active: every new tick (the default), each new bar (if only need them to update for the last completed bar), or once every "n" seconds (helpful if processing-intensive indicators are affecting the computer's responsiveness) |- you can now specify the date when running orders for a strategy basket

2.10	606	Link windows by symbol and/or period	The "S" color link button in the window title can be set to a specific color to link the symbol in that window to all other windows with the same color link -- changing the symbol in one window will automatically change the symbol in all other windows with the same color link.  Charts can also be linked by "bar period" (daily, weekly, 60 minute, etc.) using the "P" color link button.
2.10	606	Use Instant Replay to practice trading	You can run instant replay either with a specific strategy or in "game mode" (to place your own buys and sells as the chart progresses).  When closing the game mode, you can save your results, and then view and sort the results from all your past saved games.
2.10	606	Icon drawing tool palette	The "icon" drawing tool now has an improved palette with options for quickly choosing and drawing one or more icons onto a chart.  You can select a shape, number, letter, or custom character -- and the icons can be automatically incremented as they are placed onto the chart.  Favorite configurations can also be easily named and stored.
2.10	606	Enhancements for triggering a buy/sell order	- an order can be submitted when a specified time or price is hit|- an order can be triggered by a user-specified condition|- an order can be triggered or cancelled by the fill of another order
2.10	606	Market Depth data provided in realtime stream	Depth-of-market data (e.g. Nasdaq Level 2 and NYSE Regional bids/asks) is now provided in the realtime stream in order to see the current bids and asks from all of the sources.  Additional exchange fees apply.
2.10	606	Auto-trading a strategy	A strategy can be set up to automatically trade for a specified symbol -- the entry and exit orders will be generated and submitted and the fills will be tracked.  This is initially only supported for simulated trading, but will be available for online brokerage accounts in the near future.  This feature requires real-time data streaming for the symbols being traded.
2.10	606	Swing Point Trendlines indicator	New charting indicator to automatically place trendlines on the chart based on swing points.

2.09	594	Order enhancements	Some misc. enhancements for buy/sell orders:|- an "order group" can now be maintained (to predefine one or more orders which can later be quickly submitted)|- a history for each order can now be viewed (when order was created, submitted, filled, etc)|- a general notes field has been added for orders (e.g. to journal an explanation for entry/exit)|- the entry quantity is remembered and used as the default for the next entry order for that symbol|- an "activity log" displays a chronological list of all order events for the current session (order submissions, fills, cancels, etc.)|- a separate tab for each grid of the Trade Console along with a summary tab to see the current status of all working orders, open positions and account equity
2.09	592	Spread functions	You can now easily create your own spread function/indicator: create a new function, select "Spread" as the category, then just fill out the grid in order to specify the symbols and weightings to use.  We have already included the popular "Crack spread" and "Crush spread" functions as examples.
2.09	592	Can use "magnet" to snap drawing tools to OHLC bars	The magnet button on the tool bar can be toggles on/off in order to snap a drawing tool to the open, high, low or close of a price bar when you drag the drawing tool close enough.
2.09	592	Minor backtesting enhancements	A couple of minor enhancements were made in order for the backtesting to better mimic real trading:|- "On Close" orders will only fill on the last bar of the day for intraday strategies|- By default now, Limit orders will only be "filled" if the market trades through the limit price (the Strategy Editor has an option on the Settings tab if you want a limit order to fill if the market just touches the limit price)
2.09	590	Date/time now displayed in LOCAL TIME ZONE	The default is now for all times to be displayed in your local time zone (this setting can be changed on the Misc tab of the Program Settings).  Historical adjustments are made for differences in time zone and daylight saving time.  This affects the times displayed on the quote board, trade reports, next bar report, and bars on intraday charts -- but non-intraday charts (daily, weekly, etc) are not affected since the date associated with a daily bar is the "trading session" date (which is the same for that bar regardless of where you are).
'2.09	590	Time zone and DST adjustments for data from different exchanges	For intraday charts and backtesting, data from different exchanges are adjusted to account for differences in time zone and daylight saving time (i.e. the bars will line up with other data that actually traded at the same time).
2.09	590	Can specify order when arranging charts	You can now manually specify the order or sort alphabetically when arranging charts (i.e. tiling, cascading, or tabs at bottom when maximized).  To arrange charts, select "Arrange Chart Windows" from the "Charts" menu item, or just hit 'Ctrl-A' (hot-key).
2.09	590	"Of" in TradeSense can now specify a symbol and/or bar period	TradeSense expressions (e.g. functions, custom indicators, criteria, etc.) now allow for "Symbol,Period" after the word "Of" in order to specify a symbol and/or bar period.  Some examples ...|- Close of "IBM" --> returns the close of IBM for the current chart period|- High of "IBM,Weekly" --> returns the weekly high of IBM|- High of ",Weekly" --> returns the weekly high for the charted symbol|- MovingAvg(Low, 7) of "MSFT" --> returns the moving average of lows for Microsoft|- (COT Commercials of "SP-067" + COT Commercials of "ES-067") / 2 --> returns average of the Commercials for SP and ES
2.09	590	Can easily download more history for a specific symbol	If you would like to get more end-of-day or intraday history when charting a specific symbol, you can right-click on the chart and choose "Download more history".  The download will include full history for the end-of-day data, and can also include additional intraday data for a specified date range.
2.09	590	Can select specific types of data to download for daily updates	The "Data Types" button on the daily update screen allows you to select the types of data you are interested in updating (e.g. foreign stocks, intraday data for specific security types, etc.).  Turning off data types you are not interested in following will help decrease the time for downloading and distributing.
2.09	590	TradeServer fills provided in realtime stream	When you are running the realtime stream and you place a stop or limit order using a 'SimTrade' account (a paper-trading account where Genesis will simulate the trade fills), the fills will now be received automatically through the realtime stream -- you no longer need to keep checking the status of the orders.

2.08	583	REAL-TIME DATA STREAMING	You can have data streamed continuously via an internet connection to your quote board and charts in order to be updated real-time.  Exchange fees may apply -- call Genesis for pricing information.
2.08	583	Settle flag on the Quote Board	The quote board will now reflect the settle price once a future has settled -- a letter "s" will appear beside the price (box-style) or in the "Tick/Settle" column (grid-style) to indicate the last price is a settle.  The settle will be received through either a quote board refresh or through the real-time data stream.
2.08	583	Easier strategy export	An export button on the toolbox's Strategy tab will help you quickly create a new library, move the selected strategy into it, and export the library.
2.08	583	Order Tracker Alert	You can now set an alert (popup message and/or audio alert) for when orders have changed in the order tracker.
2.08	583	New drawing tools for charts	Some new drawing tools have been added for charting:  triangle, channel highlight, mirror, pattern copy, risk reward, and wave labels.
2.08	583	Tick Distribution Grid	A "price ladder" to show the trading activity at each price for a particular day (this form will update real-time when real-time is active).
2.08	583	Time and Sales	A list of all the trades for a symbol on a particular day (this form will update real-time when real-time is active).
2.08	583	Additional money management reports	When viewing the results of backtesting a strategy, the money management portion now also has "By Year" and "By Month" reports.

2.07	565	More help when selecting symbols for futures and stock options	When selecting a futures symbol, information is now displayed for the related trading session symbols (e.g. pit, electronic, combined) and the various types of continuous contracts.  When entering a stock option symbol (e.g. when adding to the quote board), tables are now displayed for the month and strike price codes.
2.07	565	Can easily synchronize all charts to the same symbol	When selecting the symbol for a chart, you can choose the "synch all charts" option in order to change the symbol for all open charts (e.g. if have charts of multiple time-frames for the same symbol).
2.07	565	Simulated Online Trading	You can now practice trading real-time through Genesis using a simulated on-line trading account (not real money).  Open up the "Trade Console" from the Trade Navigator toolbar in order to manage your orders and positions.  Genesis maintains a "trade server" to simulate the filling of orders that you place.  Market orders are usually filled immediately (during market hours), while stop and limit orders are held by the trade server and filled when the market reaches the specified price -- the fill information will be automatically downloaded and displayed the next time you connect to Genesis for any reason (e.g. a daily download, quote board refresh, etc.).
2.07	565	New drawing tools: Fibonacci Fan, Speed/Resistance Fan, Trendline Channels	The fan drawing tools work similar to the Gann Fan but allow for other methods of defining the fan angles.  The trendline channel is an enhancement to trendlines -- you can add one or more parallel channels above and/or below a trendline (and you can quickly add a channel to an existing trendline by holding the 'Shift' key while clicking and dragging on the trendline).
2.07	565	Remote Assistance	A tool under the Help menu that allows a support technician at Genesis to view your display (and optionally to provide keyboard and mouse control) in order to better assist you in resolving Genesis-related issues.  You need to first call Genesis Technical Support -- the technician can then give you a "Station ID" in order to initiate the connection.
2.07	565	Charting from external Metastock and CSI data files	You can now chart data from Metastock and CSI data files (requires the Gold version).
2.07	565	Email Alert	You can now create an alert that will send an email (e.g. to your cell phone, remote computer, etc.)
2.07	565	"Show/Hide Indicators" window for the active chart	This is a docked window (displayed from button on toolbar) with a checkbox for each pane and indicator which allows you to more quickly perform common actions for the active chart ... |- can quickly turn indicators or panes on/off |- can dbl-click to edit an indicator |- can move a pane up/down by dragging it in the grid |- can add/remove/edit indicators
2.07	565	Condition Builder	This tool provides an easy way to build a condition using the indicators from the active chart by just filling out a grid -- the TradeSense expression is dynamically built for you, which you can then copy into a new function, criteria or rule.
2.07	565	Strategy Wizard	The strategy wizard is designed to help walk you through the steps of creating a new strategy.  The wizard is automatically invoked whenever you create a new strategy, but you can also run it from an existing strategy.  The wizard toolbar will walk you through each step, providing an instructive message, and guiding you through the various items to fill out.  The last step will actually run the strategy, or you can exit the wizard at any time and keep everything done to that point.
2.07	565	"Link to chart" option in strategy editor	In the strategy editor there is now an option on the Data tab to "link" to the active chart (i.e. to use the active chart's symbol, bar period and date range).  This allows running a back-test or orders from the strategy editor as if the strategy were applied to the active chart.
2.07	565	Can merge trades for a strategy run on multiple symbols	After running a strategy on multiple symbols, there is now a "Merged Reports" button to display the performance reports for the combined trades from all symbols.
2.07	565	"Highlight Box" option for Highlight Bars and Strategies	There is a new display option for highlight bars: can set the style to "Highlight Boxes" which draws a box around the OHLC bars.  You can include a certain number of bars before and/or after the condition bar.  The box can also be "filled" with a background color as well.  You can also use the highlight box style to display the trades when a strategy is applied to a chart.
2.07	565	Custom select your "favorite functions"	In the toolbox, you can now specify the functions to be in your list of favorites (to help filter the list of functions and indicators).
2.07	565	Stock Sector Tree in the Symbol Grid	There is a new item in the symbol grid dropdown called "Stock Sector Tree" -- this allows viewing stocks by their sector/subsector and ranking the criteria values of stocks within their subsector.
2.07	565	Settings dialog for the Symbol Grid	There is now a settings button on the symbol grid which displays a dialog to more easily view and edit the various settings (selected list, tree view, columns to display, sortation, font, etc.)
2.07	565	Display format for criteria	You can now specify the display format for the results of a criteria expression: auto-rounding, specific rounding, in trading units, etc.
2.07	565	Custom inputs for strategy baskets	Strategy baskets now allow for specifying different inputs for each item in the basket -- e.g. you can use the same strategy for different markets while specifying a unique stop-loss for each market.

2.06	559	Enhancements to Quote Board	Made some minor improvements to the user interface of the quote board in order to make adding and removing symbols a little easier and more intuitive
2.06	556	Tooltips on chart for indicator labels and annotations	Descriptive information will be displayed as a tooltip on the chart when your mouse hovers over an indicator label, a roll/split diamond, a trade/order triangle, etc.
2.06	555	New 'Support/Resistance Line' drawing tool	Support/Resistance line is a single horizontal line that can be drawn as follows: |- if clicked and dragged on the chart, a horizontal line will be displayed from where you start to where you end |- if just clicked onto the chart (without dragging), a horizontal line will be displayed that starts where you clicked and extends all the way to the right |- once an SR line exists, it's extend property can be changed in the editor |- includes options for color, style, and displaying the price value at the end of the line
2.06	555	New options for the 'Dollar Difference' drawing tool	One or more of the following can now be displayed at the end of the line: |- can show trading profit/loss |- can show price move as a number of ticks |- can show length as a number of bars (can optionally show as a horizontal line)
2.06	555	Can display Up/Down colors and 'True Range' for OHLC bars	There is now an option to easily color the OHLC bars based on whether an up or down close.  An option has also been added to show the extended bar when the previous close is above the high or below the low ('True Range').  Both these options can be selected by editing the Chart Settings and selecting the "Price" row.
2.06	555	Bollinger Bars (additional OHLC display style)	An additional display style for OHLC bars which was developed by John Bollinger.
2.06	555	Can set custom names for chart tabs	When you have multiple charts and they are maximized, you can now set a custom name for the chart tabs displayed along the bottom -- just right-click on the tab to set or clear the name.
2.06	555	Custom-named icon configurations	You can save the settings for a specific drawing icon by choosing "Save As" from the icon editor and giving it a name -- then you can choose from your list of saved icon settings whenever you add an icon to a chart.
2.06	555	Sector/subsector browser and toolbuttons	- there is a new Sector Browser window to view the heirarchy of sectors, subsectors, and components |- additional toolbar buttons are now available for displaying and selecting the sector, subsector and components related to the active chart (to add these buttons, click on "View / Customize Toolbars", scroll down to the bottom of the items for the "Chart Settings toolbar", and turn on the 'Sectors', 'Subsectors', and 'Components' buttons)
2.06	555	Fundamental functions added	New functions have been added to make it easier to chart and backtest using the fundamental data for stocks.
2.06	555	Instant Replay mode	Provides the ability to replay past data on end-of-day or intraday charts -- you can set the starting date and customize the replay speed and update interval.
2.06	555	Fully customizable quote board with new display-style option	Scroll down to see all the items listed below ... |- two display styles to choose from: "Grid-style" and "Box-style" |- settings are now maintained independently for each tab (symbols, row order, columns, column order, column widths, etc.) |- can add "label rows" to the grid (to group and organize rows of symbols in the grid) |- can now support alerts for intraday bars (e.g. a stochastic crossover on 5-minute bars) |- the refresh rate (how often changed values are displayed) has been increased to just a fraction of a second (this only applies to when using the real-time interface) |- alerts have been moved off to a separate dialog in order to gain more "real estate"
2.06	555	'Scoring' functions	A 'scoring' function allows an easy method to assign a score to a list of conditions -- the function returns the total score at each bar for all conditions which are true.  This type of function can then be plotted on a chart as an indicator, or used as a HighlightBar to identify where the score is high enough, or used in a Criteria in order to rank all symbols by their current score or find all symbols with a high enough score.  To make a new scoring function, bring up the toolbox (Ctrl-T), select the Functions tab, click on the New button, and change the category to 'Scoring' -- then start adding to the list of conditions.
2.06	555	A large number of enhancements related to Strategy development	Scroll down to see all the items listed below ... |- can display "profit lines" on the chart to connect entries with exits and whether trade is a profit or loss (to turn them on/off, edit the Chart Settings and select "Trading Strategy") |- tooltips now display the trade information when mouse hovers over a trade or order triangle on the chart |- can easily run a strategy on multiple symbols (on the Data tab of the Strategy Editor, clicking on the Symbol for Market1 will now display a dropdown of available symbol groups and filters as well as selecting a single symbol) |- can view a combined "Orders for Next Bar" for multiple strategies or symbols (e.g. from Order Tracker) |- can easily run just long or short entries (on the Rules tab of the Strategy Editor, select the "Long Entries" or "Short Entries" option, then click on "Run") |- new option to allow the entries to reverse from an opposite position or not (on Settings tab of Strategy Editor) |- the Rule Editor is now resizable |- can customize which fields and the order of fields being displayed on the performance reports |- the individual trades can now be charted in the performance reports |- orders for the next bar on the chart will now automatically skip scheduled holidays
2.06	555	'Strategy Basket' enhancements	A 'Strategy Basket' (formerly known as Strategy Runs) provides the ability to run a combination of one or more strategies on one or more symbols: |- you can backtest all the combinations and sort the results in a table |- you can now generate a combined "orders for the next bar" report for all the combinations |- many minor adjustments have been made in order to allow the strategy baskets to be a little more user-friendly and to increase the success rate of completing the run (i.e. with fewer 'errors' which stop the run from completing)
2.06	555	Custom sounds for alerts	A .WAV file can now be selected for an audio alert.

2.05	548	'Chart Move' mode	The new 'Chart Move' tool can now be selected in order to quickly move the chart by clicking and dragging.  When the price pane is in 'Auto-scale' the chart will drag sideways (up/down determined automatically), but when in 'Manual Scale' the chart can be dragged up and down as well as sideways.
2.05	548	'Chart Erase' mode	The new 'Chart Erase' tool can be selected in order to quickly remove things from the chart:  click on an indicator label to remove it, click on a drawing tool to remove it (or portion thereof), etc.
2.05	548	Orders for next bar shown on chart	When running a strategy on a chart, the orders for the next bar will now be displayed on the current bar along with the fills/trades.  When the current bar hits an order price, it will be converted to a fill and the new orders will then be displayed.  This feature works especially well when running real-time intraday strategies or when using the automatic quote board refresh.
2.05	548	Misc. enhancements	- added new functions: Correlation, RSquared, and ZigZag |- when displaying unsplit stock data in weekly/monthly bars and a split occurs in the middle of a week/month, that period is now separated into two bars (pre-split and post-split) |- rules in the "By Rule" report for the next bar are now put into the following order: Exit Buys, Exit Sells, Entry Buys, Entry Sells |- various reports (e.g. performance summary reports, strategy and rule definitions) can now be 'printed' to the clipboard to make it easier to paste into external documents |- date-related functions now consider the evening session of intraday data as part of the next day's trading (e.g. DayOfWeek, DayOfMonth, BarOfDay, Bars Left In Day, etc.)

2.04	543	'Monthly History' added to strategy performance reports	You can now view the performance of the strategy for each month of the trading history.	PLAT
2.04	543	Moving average for Equity Curve	You can plot a moving average with the equity curve (on the performance reports for a strategy) in order to determine when a strategy is failing.	PLAT
2.04	543	Can now set and use default thickness for drawing tools	The thickness/style for most drawing tools can now be set to 'default' -- then the default for Annotations can be changed in the chart's 'General Settings' to quickly change the thickness/style for all existing tools that have been drawn on the charts.
2.04	541	Continuous contracts now roll the night before the new contract starts	When a continuous contract for a commodity rolls to the next contract, the roll information will be distributed in the daily download prior to the day of the roll.  This allows the following to happen: the 'rolls report' will popup after a daily download to indicate which continuous contracts are rolling, the back-adjustment for the existing data will be performed so orders for the next bar will be accurate for the new contract, the quote board and charts for the next day will be updating for the new contract, and the roll diamond for tomorrow on the chart will change from a '?' to an 'R' to indicate the roll is definite.
2.04	540	Global chart cursor	Whenever a vertical crosshair is being used and more than one chart is displayed, then as you move the cursor across a chart the vertical crosshairs will automatically move on all the other charts in order to synchronize dates.
2.04	540	Can use 'markers' for HighlightBars	When adding a true/false indicator to a chart, you can now either color the price bars or put 'markers' (e.g. arrows, dots, triangles, etc.) above or below the price bars.  Multiple markers will be displayed for a bar if more than one HighlightBar indicator is true for that bar.
2.04	540	Quick charting link for trades in performance summary	If you double-click on a specific trade in the performance summary, the chart data will be repositioned to show the price bar for that trade (assuming there is a chart with the same symbol and bar period).	PLAT
2.04	540	Foreign intraday data displayed in exchange time	Intraday data for foreign exchanges (outside North America) is now displayed in that exchange's time zone instead of GMT (i.e. bar times for intraday charts and trades).
2.04	540	Can chart the strategy optimization results	When optimizing the inputs for a strategy (which requires the Platinum version), you can now chart the results as a 2D chart (if one optimized input) or 3D chart (if two optimized inputs) in order to more easily see trends, spikes and anomalies.
2.04	540	TradeTracker: ability to leg in and out of a position	You can now place multiple entries in TradeTracker to get into a long or short position, and multiple exits to get out.
2.04	540	Misc. enhancements and fixes	Scroll down to see all the enhancements and fixes listed below ... |- tooltips display the symbol description for symbols in a grid (e.g. quote board, symbol grid) |- you can now "fill" a rectangle (i.e. color the background of the rectangle) |- point-and-figure charts now use a more accurate method (displaying the X's and O's on the boundaries rather than between them) |- intraday data can be exported to an ascii file of 5, 10, 15, 30, or 60 minute bars |- the "Test Entry" for strategies now works if any strategy settings have changed |- the performance summary is now displayed in a new window each time a strategy is run so two sets of results can be easily compared |- the trades report is now initialized to display the ending trades |- the money management reports now display how many contracts to trade for the next trade |- the "By Rule" report for Next Bar Orders is now sorted: first the buys then the sells

2.03	531	Bollinger Percent B and BandWidth indicators added	A chart template named 'Bollinger Studies' has also been provided which displays Bollinger Bands, Percent B, and BandWidth indicators.
2.03	531	Larry Williams 'Blastoff' function added	Larry's 'Blastoff' function has been added to the 'Inner Circle' library.	INC
2.03	531	Ability to 'square' a chart	There is now an option to set the price scale to a constant ratio (number of points per bar).
2.03	531	New drawing tools:  Fib Circle, Time Zones, Time Ratios, Time Cycles, Andrews Pitchfork	The 'time' tools display vertical lines at specific bars (to show the calculated distances in time).
2.03	531	Customizing the Toolbars	The tool buttons have been separated onto multiple toolbars to allow the flexibility of moving a group of tool buttons (e.g. drawing tools can be down the side or at the top).  You can now select which tool buttons you wish to display on the toolbar, and there are many more tool buttons now available to display.
2.03	531	New Help System	Hitting 'F1' will now provide help for the part of the program you are currently working with.  The help files will be kept up-to-date automatically through the end-of-day downloads.  (You may need to download the special file 'Help' to receive the initial set of help files.)
2.03	531	'What's New' information	The 'What's New' window will be displayed when new features have been added to Trade Navigator, along with a button to download the upgrade.

2.02	524	'Chart Pages'	The layout and configuration of multiple charts can now be saved as a 'chart page'.  You can then easily switch to any previously saved chart page.
2.02	524	Ability to edit bad ticks	Double-clicking on a price bar of an intraday chart (e.g. 5-minute bars) will display the ticks/trades that make up that bar.  A specific tick can then be edited or flagged as bad.
2.02	524	Option for 'Precision-Tick' capability	There is now an option in Program Settings to specify checking the tick data to determine which order would have been filled during strategy backtesting.
2.02	524	New ellipse drawing tool	The new ellipse tool, which replaced the older style, is now fully rotatable.
2.02	524	Gann Fan/Angle drawing tool	This tool allows plotting one or more lines at a specific 'slope' (number of points per bar).
2.02	524	New chart types:  Point & Figure, Kagi, and Renko	These new chart types combine a certain display style along with a specific method for defining when each bar period starts and ends.
2.02	524	Enhancement to 'RSI' function	The RSI function now allows for the user to specify which expression to use (rather than just assuming the 'Close').
2.02	524	'Adaptive Moving Average' indicators and study	This set of indicators was developed by Perry Kaufman.
2.02	524	Option to connect and download using HTTP protocol	There is now an option in Program Settings to connect with the Genesis servers using either HTTP protocol (which allows using a proxy server to go through a firewall) or FTP protocol.
 